1. What is the use of doctype HTML?
Doctype is used to provide the information to the browser that in which mark up language the web page is built.


2. Purpose of meta tag?
Meta tag gives datas of different informations.
used to portray keywords, author,viewport settings.
also used by search engines and web services to rank web pages.

4. Difference between psueo class and psuedo elements?
pseudo classes are used to select or style a specific element under specific conditions. ex- a:hover
structual pseudo class are used to select a tag from the structual tree.ex: #section:nth-child

pseudo elements are used to create a new element which isn't present on the html file, where it is used with double colon (::).
used to make animation for webpage. ex- ::before, ::after.


6. Use of svg and canvas
Scalable Vector Graphics-SVG used in html for printing 2d-graphics in web page.
Canvas-Canvas is used to draw graphics through javascript instead of using diretly on html file.

7. Media querries
media queries are used for developing a responsive web page.
used as a condition in css, so only when the condition meets the styles under the media querie will be applied to the html file

8. Orientation
read only property of screen interface.
an instance is used to detect the orientation of the screen.

9. Set time out and set interval difference
set timeout- when a function is called with set timeout, the function will be called only after the timeout interval and only once.
set interval-when a function is called with set interval, the specific function is called for each interval mpre than once until metting the condition mentioned by the programmer.

10. Box model.
box model defines the layout of the page.
it contains
*margin
*border
*padding in all four sides of the page.
followed by the content

11. Attribute.
attributes are used on tag to control the behaviour of that specific tag

12.Use of default (reset) css
every browser has a default stylesheet for the webpage appearance.
in order to reset all default styling by the browser reset cs is used.

13. In span tag I give width:50px:
Padding: 5px;
Margin : 5px;
Now calculate width
Ans-Now the final width will be 60px by adding the padding on both side 5px + 5px +(width:50px)= 60px.